# von Dassow et al. (2000) model of segment polarity network - Timecourse 1 results

This folder contains the simulations of timecourse1 for the segment polarity network with [COPASI](https://copasi.org), [Virtual Cell](https://vcell.org/), [Tellurium/libRoadRunner](https://tellurium.analogmachine.org/), and [Amici](https://github.com/AMICI-dev/AMICI). The inital conditions are those of name "Degraded" in von Dassow et al. (2000), and the parameter set is one of those found by random sampling that had a score below 0.2.

## Files
- **timecourse1.copasi.tsv** simulation by COPASI (used LSODA with absolute tolerance 1e-13 and relative tolerance 1e-8)
- **timecourse1.vcell.tsv** simulation by Virtual Cell (used Adams-Moulton with fixed step size of 0.1). This was run from the file _vonDassow2000_1x4.timecourse1.omex_ in the folder above.
- **timecourse1.tellurium.tsv** simulation by Tellurium/libRoadRunner (used CVODE non-stiff method (Adams-Moulton, variable step size, variable order) with absolute tolerance 1e-12 relative tolerance 1e-6). This was run with the files _runTellurium.py_ and _vonDassow2000_1x4.timecourse1.xml_ in the folder above.
- **timecourse1.amici.tsv** simulation by Amici (used CVODES stiff method (Gear algorithm) with absolute tolerance 1e-16 relative tolerance 1e-8). This was run in the web service [runBioSimulations](https://run.biosimulations.org/) with the file _vonDassow2000_1x4.timecourse1.omex_ in the folder above.
- **timecourse1.plt** gnuplot script to produce figures 3 and 4 displayed below

## Results
Note the figure numbers are the same as in the forthcoming publication.


![Time course simulation of mRNA species in a 1x4 arrangement of cells using a parameter set obtained by random sampling from the "degraded" initial condition. Columns represent the different cells; the middle dashed line separating cell 2 and cell 3 represents a parasegmental boundary.  Displayed in each plot are the time evolution of all mRNA species in that cell. Note the formation of the expected segment polarity pattern around the parasegmental boundary, with high levels of _wingless_ and _patched_ in cell 2, and high levels of _engrailed_ and _hedgehog_ in cell 3. Each row corresponds to simulations carried out by different software. Results from the four simulators are visibly the same.](https://github.com/pmendes/models/blob/main/vonDassow2000/timecourse1/Fig3final.png)
**Fig.3** - Time course simulation of mRNA species in a 1x4 arrangement of cells using a parameter set obtained by random sampling from the "degraded" initial condition. Columns represent the different cells; the middle dashed line separating cell 2 and cell 3 represents a parasegmental boundary.  Displayed in each plot are the time evolution of all mRNA species in that cell. Note the formation of the expected segment polarity pattern around the parasegmental boundary, with high levels of _wingless_ and _patched_ in cell 2, and high levels of _engrailed_ and _hedgehog_ in cell 3. Each row corresponds to simulations carried out by different software. Results from the four simulators are visibly the same.

![Time course simulation of protein species as in Figure 3. Displayed in each plot are the time evolution of some of the protein species in that cell. Species _EWG_T_ represents the total amount of _EWG_ protein (product of _wingless_) located in the membranes of the six neighboring cells to the one displayed; _PH_T_ is the sum of all patched–hedgehog complexes located in the six sides of that cell's membrane, and _PTC_T_ is the sum of all free patched receptor located in the six sides of that cell's membrane. Each row corresponds to simulations carried out by different software with different algorithms. As in Fig.3, there are no visible differences in the results of the  four simulators.](https://github.com/pmendes/models/blob/main/vonDassow2000/timecourse1/Fig4final.png)
**Fig.4** - Time course simulation of protein species as in Figure 3. Displayed in each plot are the time evolution of some of the protein species in that cell. Species _EWG_T_ represents the total amount of _EWG_ protein (product of _wingless_) located in the membranes of the six neighboring cells to the one displayed; _PH_T_ is the sum of all patched–hedgehog complexes located in the six sides of that cell's membrane, and _PTC_T_ is the sum of all free patched receptor located in the six sides of that cell's membrane. Each row corresponds to simulations carried out by different software with different algorithms. As in Fig.3, there are no visible differences in the results of the  four simulators.
